#### Version History
### v. 10.0 D12
- Migrated almost all rolls D12
- Merged Strength into WS and BS directly
### v. 9.0 Roll High
- Migrate to Obsidian
- Moved to roll high [Coreheim & Roll High Conversion](Coreheim%20&%20Roll%20High%20Conversion.md)
	- Changed system to roll high for WS, BS, S, I, LD
	- Changed Toughness to Toughness modifier
	- Removed automatic hits and Overkill
### v. 8.9f
- Multiple Pages: Halberd price up from 10gc to 15gc.
- p. 28: Halfling Scout: Upkeep fee down from 5gc to 3gc
- p. 29: Dwarven Slayer: Upkeep fee down from 10gc to 7gc
- p. 29: Dwarven Slayer: Gains Leap Special Rule _(Cannot be intercepted when charging)._
- p. 29: Elven Ranger: Hire fee down from 40gc to 35gc; Upkeep fee down from 20gc to 15gc.
- p. 31: Freelancer: Upkeep fee down from 10gc to 7gc
- p. 31: Skryre Engineer: Hire fee down from 40gc to 35gc AND upkeep fee down from 20gc to 15gc
- p. 50: Possessed Magisters: Apprentice Magic Special Rule: Changed from learning spells at two skills per spell to the following: May learn spells, however, each time a Magister learns a new spell (or reduces the difficulty of spell that he already knows) he must roll on the Heroes’ Post-game Injury Chart on page 60, treating any rolls of 'Captured' and 'Sold to the Pits' as 'Multiple Injuries' instead.
- p. 53: Corrected Fighting Claws price (correct price is 10gc). Hat tip to Konate
### v. 8.9e
- p. 45: Added clarification that Squig Mount gives +1 W to rider like other mounts. Hat tip to Konate
- p. 55: Fighting Claws cost 10gc, +1 rarity, now have +1 Initiative in all rounds of combat. Hat tip to Khirareq
- p. 16: Corrected typo. Hat tip to Khirareq
- Pistols -5gc price (15gc)
- Duelling Pistols -5gc price (25gc)
- Warplock Pistols -5gc price (20gc)
- p. 13: Clubs: Special Rules Changed: +1 S vs. enemies Knocked Down
- p. 13: Flail: Loses +1 Strength Bonus. Clarified that enemies within 1” can always strike back at Flail-Wielder if they have the attacks.
- p. 4 7 : Night Goblin Fanatics: +1 S, +5gc price
- p. 9: Panic: Clarified that failing a panic test only means that you can’t fight back during your own turn (not the entire player round). Hat tip to Konate.
- p. 15: Holy Tome Price down from 100gc to 80gc.
- p. 56: Quick Shot: Added: This skill cannot be used with Crossbows. (Somebody had to try and sneak it past the rules, lol!)
- p. 6: Replaced: “Enemies whose bases are touching are considered to be in close combat” with: “Enemies within 1” of each other will be considered to be in close combat.” – i.e. no free attacks with flail that cannot be retaliated
- p. 25: Henchmen Experience: Clarified: _(A select few scenarios allow henchmen go gain experience for extraordinary deeds like taking an enemy hero or monster out of action. See the Scenarios list.)_ Hat tip to Khirareq
- p. 14: Nimble: added: “Simply carrying a missile weapon into battle counts as being ‘equipped with a missile weapon, even if the warrior is not currently using it.” Hat tip to Sean Spellman.
- p. 63: Added Clarification Text: “The ‘Fighting Claw’ listed on p. 53 is a single one-handed Close Combat weapon. If the warrior wants two Fighting Claws, he must purchase the item twice.”
- p. 63: Added Clarification Text: “Fighting with Two Pistols: A warrior that wants to shoot two pistols during the same turn must have the ‘Quick Shot’ skill to do so.”
