---
tags:
  - warband
---
*“People say that we Marienburgers hold money to be the most important thing in the world, but really we think its love. - Fortunately we all love money.”* - Wilhelm Schultz, Marienburg Lancer 

*“The Sigmarites consider us uncivilized. But if Mordheim is any measure of their ‘civilisation’, I’ll take barbarism any day.”* - Hermann Foerster, Middenheim Sergeant

## Mercenary Skill Table

|                | **Combat** | **Shooting** | **Academic** | **Strength** | **Speed** | **Rogue** |
| -------------- | ---------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | --------- | --------- |
| **Captain**    | X          | X            | X            | X            | X         |           |
| **Sergeant**   | X          | X            |              | X            |           |           |
| **Youngblood** | X          | X            |              |              | X         |           |

## Warband Size and Rout Threshold
**Max Size 15**: The number of warriors in a Mercenary warband may never exceed 15.

**Rout Threshold 4**: Mercenaries take Rout Tests once **4 or more warband members** have gone out of action. *(5 for Reikland, see below.)*
## Hired Swords
| Ogre Bodyguard | Halfling Scout | Dwarf Slayer | Elf Ranger      |
| -------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --------------- |
| X              | X              | X            | X               |
| **Pit Fighter**    | **Warlock**        | **Freelancer**   | **Skryre Engineer** |
| X              | X              | X            |                 |

## Weapons List for All Except Marksmen

| Close Combat Weapons | Cost |     | Missile Weapons | Cost     |
| -------------------- | ---- | --- | --------------- | -------- |
| Dagger               | Free |     | Bow             | 7        |
| Club                 | 5    |     | Pistol          | 15       |
| Axe                  | 5    |     | Duelling Pistol | 25       |
| Spear                | 5    |     | Crossbow        | 25       |
| Sword                | 7    |     |                 |          |
| Halberd              | 15   |     | **Armour**      | **Cost** |
| Great Weapon         | 10   |     | Light Armour    | 25       |
|                      |      |     | Heavy Armour    | 50       |
|                      |      |     | Shield          | 5        |

## Marksmen Weapons
| Close Combat Weapons | Cost     |     | Missile Weapons | Cost |
| -------------------- | -------- | --- | --------------- | ---- |
| Dagger               | Free     |     | Bow             | 7    |
| Club                 | 5        |     | Long Bow        | 12   |
| Axe                  | 5        |     | Pistol          | 15   |
| Sword                | 7        |     | Duelling Pistol | 25   |
|                      |          |     | Crossbow        | 25   |
| **Armour**           | **Cost** |     | Blunderbuss     | 20   |
| Light Armour         | 25       |     | Rifle           | 30   |
| Heavy Armour         | 50       |     | Long Rifle      | 75   |
| Shield               | 5        |     |                 |      |

## Special Rules
#### Marienburg
**City of Gold**: Deduct 10gc from the hire fee of all Hired Swords and Marienburg Hired Swords are only Lost on D12 rolls of 1-2. (Rather than the normal 1-4.)
**Ruthless to get Ahead**: Captains and Sergeants have access to Rogue Skills in addition to their other skill lists. (This allows promoted henchmen to choose Rogue skills as one of their two skill lists.)
#### Middenheim
**Steadfast**: Captains have ‘No Pain’. (i.e. treats ‘stunned’ as ‘knocked down’. - No effect while mounted.)
**Strongmen**: Youngbloods and Henchmen promoted to heroes have access to Strength skills in addition to their other skills. (This allows promoted henchmen a total of three skill lists, rather than two.)
#### Reikland
**Superior Drill**: Do not take Rout Tests until 5 or more warriors are out of action.
**Champion Officers**: Sergeants start with Ld 4+ and warriors within 7” can use their Ld as if they had the ‘Leader’ rule.
# Heroes
## 1 Mercenary Captain
**60gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 20**
A Mercenary Captain is a tough professional warrior, a man who will fight for anyone or against anything so long as the price is right. Mordheim offers such a man the chance to become rich beyond his dreams, though at great risk. But as ruthlessness and lack of mercy and pity are the hallmarks of a successful Mercenary Captain, it is no wonder that they flock to Mordheim.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 8+  | 8+  | 5+  | 4+  |

**SPECIAL RULES**
**Leader** (Friendly warriors within 7”may use his Leadership instead of their own.)
## 0-2 Sergeants
**40gc to hire
Starting Experience: 6**
In any Mercenary warband there are warriors who are bigger, stronger (and often uglier) than their comrades. These men are called Sergeants (or Champions, first swordsmen and various other names). Sergeants are amongst the toughest and the best fighters in the warband. They often answer challenges issued to the warband and, after the Captain, they get the pick of any equipment and loot.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 8+  | 9+  | 7+  | 6+  |

## 0-2 Youngbloods
**15gc to hire
Starting Experience: 0**
These are young fighters who are still inexperienced, but eager to win their spurs in the savage fighting in and around the ruins of Mordheim. Although errant and untrained, Youngbloods learn quickly and can be valuable assets to a mercenary warband as they haphazardly blaze forward into the most dangerous of situations and ask little gold in return for their services.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 10+ | 7+  | 9+  |

# Henchmen
## Free Company Militia
**25gc to hire
Starting Experience: 0**
These dogs of war are grim, seasoned fighters, fearing no man as long as they have their weapons and armour. They form the core of any Mercenary warband. Warriors from Marienburg are typically recruited from the merchant fleets that dock in the free City, Middenheim warriors tend to be fierce yeomen warriors used to defending their smallholdings, while those from Reikland tend to be exconscripts from the Imperial Army of Altdorf.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 9+  | 10+ | 7+  | 8+  |

## 0-7 Marksmen
**25gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 0**
he archers and hunters of the Old World are famed for their skill, and it is said that they can hit a coin from 300 paces with a long bow. In the savage street fights of Mordheim they snipe at the enemy from the windows of ruined buildings and pick out enemy leaders with their arrows. Lately, the introduction of blackpowder-based weapons has made requests for these troops all the more frequent.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 9+  | 7+  | 8+  |

## 0-5 State Troops
**35gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 0**
State Troops are professional warriors, experts at taking on and beating several opponents at once. They train much harder than other warriors in their pursuit of their mastery with the blade, and they are traditionally accustomed to commanding a higher fee than their less seasoned comrades. In Imperial armies State Troops are usually employed as Swordsmen where they are usually tasked with defeating other infantry, or with breaking up enemy formations before a cavalry charge. In Mordheim they form the spearhead of most Mercenary charges, slashing up enemies before the bulk of the warband approaches.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 8+  | 9+  | 7+  | 6+  |

## 0-3 Greatswords
**80gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 0**
Greatswords are the fighting elite of men, heavily armoured and trained to command the mightiest weapons, their martial prowess is unsurpassed in the known world.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 8+  | 10+ | 7+  | 4+  |

**SPECIAL RULES
Heirloom**: **Heavy Armour** (Heirloom: Warrior has this item when hired. It may not be swapped or sold, but may be discarded and robbed as normal.)
