Don’t believe everything those Witch Hunters say about the Sisters. They’re no more heretics than I am and I’ll skewer any man that says different. Not that the Sisters need looking after – they’re mean fighters and you gotta be tough just to live like they do in that big fortress in the middle of Mordheim. 
## Sisters of Sigmar Skill Table

|                     | **Combat** | **Shooting** | **Academic** | **Strength** | **Speed** | **Rogue** |
| ------------------- | ---------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | --------- | --------- |
| **Matriarch**       | X          |              | X            | X            | X         |           |
| **Sister Superior** | X          |              | X            | X            | X         |           |
| **Augur**           |            |              | X            |              | X         |           |

## Warband Size and Rout Threshold
**Max Size 12**: The number of warriors in a Sisters of Sigmar warband may never exceed 12.

**Rout Threshold 4**: Sisters of Sigmar take Rout Tests once **4 or more warband members** have gone out of action.
## Hired Swords
| Ogre Bodyguard  | Halfling Scout | Dwarf Slayer   | Elf Ranger          |
| --------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ------------------- |
|                 | X              | X              | X                   |
| **Pit Fighter** | **Warlock**    | **Freelancer** | **Skryre Engineer** |
| X               |                | X              |                     |

## Weapons List for Sisters of Sigmar

| Close Combat Weapons  | Cost |     | Missile Weapons   | Cost     |
| --------------------- | ---- | --- | ----------------- | -------- |
| Dagger                | Free |     | Sling (Short Bow) | 5        |
| Mace                  | 5    |     |                   |          |
| Sigmarite Hammer?     |      |     | **Armour**        | **Cost** |
| Flail *(Except Agur)  | 5    |     | Light Armour      | 25       |
| Steel Whip?           |      |     | Heavy Armour      | 50       |
| Great Weapon          | 10   |     | Shield            | 5        |
| Brazier of Holy Flame | 25   |     |                   |          |
| Incense Censer        | 35   |     |                   |          |

## Sisters of Sigmar Special Equipment
### Brazier of Holy Flame
* **Cost**: ***25gc**
* **Rarity**: **Rare 7+**
* **Flaming**: Strength rolls get +1, all wounds are critical hits, two handed. Wielder cannot hide. Does fire damage for purposes of regeneration.
### Incense Censer
* **Cost**: ***35gc**
* **Rarity**: **Rare 8+**
* **Type:** Miscellaneous Equipment
* **Incense**: Wielder cannot hide. Wielder always counts as in cover. Wielder has a -1 to all ranged attacks.
# Heroes
## 1 Sigmarite matriarch
**70gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 20**
The Sigmarite Matriarchs, of whom there is an inner circle of twelve, are answerable to the High Matriarch of the temple. Each must lead a warband of Sisters in frequent searches of the city in order to purge the ruins. Matriarchs are driven by a zealous devotion to the Cult of Sigmar and a relentless determination to redeem the Sisterhood in His eyes.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 8+  | 8+  | 5+  | 6+  |

**SPECIAL RULES**
**Leader**
**Priest** (One [Prayers of Sigmar](4%20Magic/Prayers%20of%20Sigmar.md))
## 0-1 Sister Librarian
**40gc to hire
Starting Experience: 8**

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 10+ | 7+  | 6+  |

**SPECIAL RULES**
**Priest** (One [Prayers of Sigmar](4%20Magic/Prayers%20of%20Sigmar.md))
**Scholar**: Sister Librarians may use Power Scroll when casting prayers. (This is an exception to the rule that Power Scrolls only work with Spells.)
## 0-3 Sister Superiors
**30gc to hire
Starting Experience: 6**
Each of the Sisters Superior is a long-serving priestess of the Cult of Sigmar, well versed in the rituals of the temple and an example to the younger Sisters and Novices. The Sisters Superior are entrusted with maintaining the faith and fervour of the order. Any peril or foe that may lurk in the ruins of Mordheim is as nothing compared to the wrath of a Sister Superior.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 9+  | 9+  | 7+  | 6+  |

# Henchmen
## Sister Novices
**20gc to hire
Starting Experience: 0**
By tradition, the Sisters draw their recruits only from the most noble houses of the Empire, and families consider it a great honour to have their daughter accepted into the order. Only maidens of noble lineage can be relied upon to have the devotion to duty and innate sense of honour. Few though the recruits may be, they must endure several years as Novices during which time their devotion will be tested to the full. All are eager to prove themselves worthy to be the handmaidens of Sigmar

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 10+ | 7+  | 8+  |

## 0-4 Shield Maidens
**25gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 0**
Sigmarite Sisters know that their entire order is shamed in the eyes of their Lord Sigmar. Every one of them is sworn upon His altar to pacify the city and thereby redeem themselves. Whatever the perils and horrors that stand in their way, they will be overcome!

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 10+ | 7+  | 8+  |

**SPECIAL RULES**
**Scales**: Shield Maidens have a natural 11+ Armour Save that can be negated and combined with other Armour as normal. (Note: Shield Maidens do not have actual Shields, only a natural Armour Save.)
## 0-2 Augurs
**20gc to hire**
**Starting Experience: 0**
The blind Augurs of the Sisterhood are blessed beyond their comrades. By giving up their sight they have gained something far more, second sight – a gift from their patron god. Only a very few are marked this way, and they are greatly revered by the Sisterhood. Unlike the rest of the priestesses, they shave their heads, save for a single long braid.

| M   | A   | W   | T   | WS  | BS  | I   | Ld  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | 1   | 1   | +0  | 10+ | 10+ | 7+  | 9+  |

**SPECIAL RULES**
**Blessed Sight**: Augurs add +3" to the distance from which they spot hidden enemies.
Augurs ignore Cover when firing Missile Weapons. (Note: The Blessed Sight of Augurs is active even if they are not equipped with a Religious Relic.)
# BLESSINGS
* Blessings are a seperate skill list only avaliable to Sisters of Sigmar.
* Henchmen that become heroes may choose Blessings as one of their two Skill Lists.
* Blessings have no effect if the Sister is not equipped with a Religion Relic.
* Each Sister can have no more than two Blessings.
## 1 BLESSED CONSTITUTION
Sister gains the 'Resilient' special rule.
(+1 to Post-Game Injury Rolls.)
## 2 BLESSED HAMMERS
+1 to all Strength rolls when the Sister makes an attack with Clubs.
+1 to WS rolls and +1 to S rolls to all attacks that Sister makes with Great Weapons.
## 3 BLESSED BULLETS
Adds +2" to the Range of Slings. (i.e. Range 14").
Adds the 'Concussion' special rule to all attacks made with Slings.
## 4 BLESSED ARMOUR
If Sister is wearing Light Armour it now counts as Heavy Armour. (Including the 'Burdensome' penalty.)
If Sister is wearing Heavy Armour it now counts as Sigmarite Armour.
Shield Maidens may not take this skill.
## 5 BLESSED SIGHT
Sister adds +3" to the distance from which she spots hidden enemies.
Sister ignores Cover when firing Missile Weapons.
## 6 BLESSED FAITH
Sister is Immune to Fear, Immune to Panic
Wizards within 6" add +2 to the Difficulty of their Spellcasting Rolls.
(Multiple Sisters with Blessed Faith causes this to stack, becomming +4, +6 and so on.)
(Not active while Knocked Down or Stunned.)
## 7 BLESSED FURY
At the start of each Close Combat phase take a Leadership test.
If passed, Sister hates one target enemy for the remainder of that phase.
Blessed Fury cannot be used the first round of Combat.
