# Gaining Spells

Wizards start with a number of spells, of their choice, from their list and may choose new spells instead of choosing a skill. If you choose a spell that you already have, you may lower the Difficulty by 1.
- The number of spells that a Wizard starts with is specified in his rules entry.
# Casting Spells
Spells are cast in the Shooting Phase. To cast a spell, the wizard must roll equal to or greater than the spell’s Difficulty on 2D6. If he fails, he cannot cast a spell that turn.
- If successfully cast, spells automatically hit their target.
- All spells require Line-of-Sight, except where otherwise noted.
- Spells can be cast while the Wizard is involved in close combat.
- Wizards may move and cast spells.
- Wizards **cannot** cast spells and fire missile weapons the same turn.
- Wizards **cannot** cast spells if they are wearing armour. _(Shields are Armour.)_
- Each Wizard may only attempt to cast one spell per turn.
# Magic Missile Spells
Some spells are marked with the words ‘Magic Missile’. Such spells are subject to the following rules:
- Wizard must target the closest enemy, but may ignore enemies knocked down or stunned.
- When casting from a position elevated 2” or more above ground level he may fire at any visible target unless there is a visible enemy within 3”. (In which case he must target the closest enemy.)
- Magic Missiles may be cast into close combat involving friendly warriors. If successfully cast, they will automatically hit their intended target.
- If the wizard is engaged in close combat he must target one of the enemies he is fighting.
# Damage
Where spells cause damage, the following rules apply:
- Spells never cause critical wounds, except where otherwise noted.
- Enemies always take armour saves as normal unless the spell specifically notes otherwise.
- If an enemy makes a successful save from the effects of a spell, other warriors may still be affected.
# Prayers
Prayers are treated in exactly the same way as spells with the following exceptions:
- Priests may wear armour and cast prayers.
- Prayers are not spells; things that protect from or bolster spells do not protect or bolster prayers and vice versa. (Power Scrolls, Talismans, and the ‘Arcane Lore’ skill have no effect on prayers.)
