# Exploration Phase
1. Roll a D6 for each hero that was not _taken out of action_, and one extra D6 if you won the battle.
2. Even if you are allowed to roll seven or more dice, you must always pick a **maximum of six** dice as your result.
3. Calculate the sum of your result and consult the table at the back of this book to see how many Wyrdstone shards you find.
4. If you roll any doubles, triples, etc., consult the table at the back of this book.
5. If you score more than one set of multiples, you must select **only one** of these as your result.
# Injuries Phase
1. Roll a D6 for each henchman, mount, and Hired Sword that was _taken out of action_:
   - 1–2 = Dead
   - 3–6 = Survives
1. Roll D66 for each hero _taken out of action_, and consult the table at the back of this book.  
   _(D66 means roll two D6s, the first is tens, the second is units.)_
2. When a warrior dies, all of their weapons, armour, and equipment are lost.
# Reinforcing Henchmen Groups
When reinforcing henchmen groups, roll a D6: this is the total amount of experience available.  
For example, if you roll 5, you may:
- Reinforce a group with 3 experience with one new member, and
- A group with 1 experience with up to two new members.
_The price of hiring henchmen remains the same, regardless of experience._
# Experience Phase
1. Each warrior that survived the battle gains +1 experience for participating, even if they were _taken out of action_.
2. _(Some scenarios allow henchmen to gain experience for extraordinary deeds like taking an enemy hero or monster out of action. See the Scenarios list.)_
3. A hero gains +1 experience for each time they took an enemy _out of action_.
4. If your warband won the battle, your leader gains +1 experience.
5. Henchmen that reach **2, 4, 6**, and **7** experience roll for advances.
6. Heroes that reach the following experience thresholds roll for advances:  
   **2, 4, 6, 8, 11, 14, 17, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 41, 46, 51, 57, 63, 69, 76, 83, 90**.  
   _(See [[2.2 Experience]])_
# Trading Phase
1. Sell Wyrdstone shards.
2. Sell weapons, armour, and equipment. You receive **half the base price**, **rounded down**.
3. Heroes not _taken out of action_ can look for rare items. For each attempt, roll 2D6:
    - If the result is **equal to or higher** than the item’s rarity, you find it.
4. Buy new weapons, armour, and equipment.
5. Pay upkeep fees for Hired Swords.
6. Hire new heroes, henchmen groups, and Hired Swords.
7. Reinforce existing Henchman Groups. _(See [[2.4 Recruiting a Warband]])_