# Post-Game Additional Rules
In addition to the rules listed in the **Post-Game Sequence**, the following rules apply:
## Henchmen Advances
- Henchmen advance as groups, and each henchman in the group gains the same advance.
- **Henchmen never add more than +1 to any of their starting characteristics.**
- If they become heroes through "Talent!", they are no longer subject to this restriction.
## Talent!
- One warrior in the group becomes a hero.
- If you already have six heroes, fire an existing hero or roll again.
- The new hero retains his type, equipment list, and any stat advances already earned.  
    _(For example, a Mercenary State Troop would still count toward the 0–5 limit, even though he is no longer a henchman.)_
- He now has two skill lists available to him; these must be chosen from those available to your warband.
### Talent! Procedure:
- The new hero may immediately make one roll on the **Heroes’ Advancement Table**.
- Any remaining henchmen in the group roll on the **Henchmen Advancement Table** again, **ignoring any further Talent! results** in this post-game sequence.
## Advancement Triggers
- **Henchmen** that reach **2, 4, 6, and 7** experience roll for advances.
- **Heroes** that reach the following experience levels roll for advances:  
    **2, 4, 6, 8, 11, 14, 17, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 41, 46, 51, 57, 63, 69, 76, 83, 90**
## Skills
- Each skill can only be chosen once.
- Skills can take a warrior above his maximum characteristics.
- **Speed Skills** cannot be used while mounted.
- **Rogue Skills** cannot be used while mounted or wearing **Heavy Armour**.
## Maximum Characteristics
Re-roll any advances that would take a warrior above the following values:

| Profile   | M   | WS  | BS  | S   | T   | W   | I   | A   | Ld  |
| --------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Beastman  | 8   | 7   | 7   | 4   | 5   | 3   | 7   | 3   | 8   |
| Dwarf     | 6   | 8   | -   | 4   | 5   | 3   | 5   | 3   | 10  |
| Elf       | 8   | 8   | 7   | 4   | 3   | 3   | 8   | 3   | 10  |
| Ghoul     | 7   | 7   | -   | 4   | 5   | 3   | 6   | 4   | 7   |
| Goblin    | 7   | 7   | 7   | 3   | 3   | 3   | 6   | 3   | 7   |
| Halfling  | 7   | 7   | 7   | 3   | 3   | 3   | 7   | 3   | 8   |
| Human     | 10  | 7   | 7   | 4   | 4   | 3   | 6   | 3   | 9   |
| Ogre      | 8   | 7   | -   | 5   | 5   | 4   | 5   | 3   | 9   |
| Possessed | 8   | 7   | -   | 8   | 5   | 4   | 7   | 4   | 10  |
| Skaven    | 8   | 7   | 7   | 4   | 4   | 3   | 7   | 3   | 7   |
| Skeleton  | 7   | 7   | 7   | 4   | 4   | 3   | 5   | 3   | 10  |
| Vampire   | 8   | 8   | -   | 4   | 5   | 3   | 7   | 4   | 10  |
## Grey Zones
- A hero that accidentally kills a member of his own warband (e.g., via splash damage) **does not receive experience** for that kill.
- A hero that accidentally kills a member of an allied warband **does receive experience** for that kill.
- A hero that knocks an enemy off a building and takes them out of action **does receive experience**.
- A mount that takes an enemy out of action **does not yield experience** for its rider.
## Starting Experience

Warriors do **not** gain advances from their starting experience.