---
sidebar_position: "1"
---
## Movement (M)
How far a warrior can move in inches.
## Weapon Skill (WS)
Warrior’s ability to hit in close combat.
## Ballistic Skill (BS)
Warrior’s ability to hit with ranged weaponry.
## Strength (S)
Is a measure of the warrior’s muscle and the force that he is able to put behind his blows.
## Toughness (T)
Represents the warrior’s resilience and ability to withstand blows.
## Wounds (W)
Shows how many times the warrior can be wounded before he is incapacitated.
## Initiative (I)
Is used to determine who strikes first in close combat and also to climb buildings, and spot _hidden_ enemies.
## Attacks (A)
How many blows the warrior can land in a single combat round.
## Leadership (LD)
The warrior’s ability to lead and as his personal courage.
# Characteristics Tests
On occasions the rules will refer to characteristics tests, such as ‘Strength test’, ‘Initiative test’, and so on.
- To test, roll a D6. If the roll is equal to or **higher** than the warrior’s characteristic the test is passed.
- Dice rolls of 6 will always succeed, regardless of how the warrior’s characteristics value.
- Dice rolls of 1 will always fail, regardless of how the warrior’s characteristics value.
# Leadership Tests
When taking a Leadership test, you must roll equal to or **higher** than the warrior’s Leadership value on 2D6.
# Min/Max Characteristics
- WS, BS, S, I cannot be reduced below 1 or increased beyond 6.
- Leadership cannot be reduced below 3 or increased beyond 11.
# Armour Saves (AS)
Is not a profile characteristic but a measure of how effective a warrior’s armour is at protecting him. Armour saves are taken on a D6 and range from 6+ to 3+.
