---
sidebar_position: "10"
---
## Animals, Mounts, and Monsters
## General Rules for All
- Count towards the maximum number of warriors in your warband, thus increasing warband rating.
- Do **not** gain experience.
- **Cannot** move up ladders, stairs, etc.
- Suffer **no penalties** for fighting unarmed.
- Are considered **henchmen groups** of their own.
- **Cannot hide**.
## Animals
- **Cannot** capture scenario objectives.
- Follow **henchmen** post-game injury rules:
   - Roll **D6**:
    - 1–2: Killed
    - 3–6: Survives
- **Cannot** climb.
- **Cannot** use the Warband Leader’s Leadership.
## Mounts
Mounts must be deployed **with a rider**. Riders **cannot dismount** during the battle.
- The rider must be a hero or henchman **proficient** with the mount.
   - _(Members of the same henchman group must ride the same type of mount.)_
- Mounted warriors are treated as a **single model**; resolve **all attacks against the rider**.
- Mounted warriors gain **+1 Wound** on profile.
   - _(This may exceed racial maximums.)_
- If the rider is _knocked down_, _stunned_, or _taken out of action_, so is the mount.
- Mounts that take enemies out of action **do not** grant experience.
- **Cannot climb.**
- Taking a mounted enemy out of action yields only **+1 experience**.
### Mounts and Post-Game Injuries
- Mounts **roll separately** from their riders.
- Mounts are **not robbed or lost** when the rider is.
- Follow **henchmen** post-game injury rules:
   - 1–2: Killed
   - 3–6: Survives
- Mounts **cannot** be used in pit fights.
## Mount Proficiencies
**Allowed Mounts by Race:**
- **Humans**: Horse, Bretonnian Horse
- **Vampire**: Horse, Bretonnian Horse
- **Night Goblins**: Great Cave Squig
- **Beastmen, Ghouls, Possessed, Skaven**: _None_
## Monsters
- Cause **Fear**.
- Suffer from **Stupidity**.
- **Cannot** capture scenario objectives.
- Add **+15** to warband rating in addition to the standard **+5** for being a member.
- Follow **hero** post-game injury rules (D66 — see Heroes' Injury Table).
- **May climb** as normal.
