---
sidebar_position: "2"
---
There are five phases each turn. Only the active player’s warriors act during that player’s turn. _(Excepting close combat.)_ During each phase, the steps detailed here must be followed in exactly this order:
## Recovery Phase
1. If **four or more members of your** **warband** are out of action , take a rout test against the acting leader’s Leadership.
_(Some warbands have a threshold of five or more members. See the warband lists.)_
2. Stupid warriors check if they are within 7 ” of an allied, non-stupid hero.
3. _Knocked down_ warriors stand up. _(They can only Half-move, cannot charge, if they stand up into close combat they will strike last irrespective of weapons and Initiative.)_
4. _Stunned_ warriors become _knocked down_.
## Charge Phase
1. Declare all charges before moving any warriors.
## Movement Phase
1. Move any warriors that you wish, working through them one at a time.
2. Declare which warriors are _hiding_.
    _(Unless a rule, spell or ability explicitly states that a warrior can hide at some other point in time, warriors can only hide at this point of the turn.)_
## Shooting Phase
1. Warriors armed with missile weapons may fire one of them.
2. A wizard may attempt to cast a spell.
3. Work through each warrior, one at a time.
## Close Combat Phase
1. Warriors engaged in close combat with **two or more enemies** and no friendly **warriors engaged in that same close** **combat** take a panic test. (Only the _active player’s warriors test for panic.)_
2. All warriors engaged in close combat fight. All warriors involved in close combat with the active player’s warband fight, regardless of whose turn it is.
   _(For multiplayer games, being part of a close combat also involving the active player will allow all parties to fight.)_
