---
sidebar_position: "3"
---
## Moving
- Warriors move up to their Movement value in inches.
-  Warriors can pass obstacles up to 1” high without using Movement.
## Half-moving
- Warriors that wish to shoot or _hide_ the same turn they moved, can only move **half** their movement value in inches, **rounded up**. _(Casting spells are not subject to this restriction.)_
# Climbing
- Warriors may climb a maximum of 4” per turn. _(There does not need to be a solid wall or similar surface in between.)_
- A warrior must take a **single** Initiative test to climb.
- If he **fails while climbing up** he stops were he started to climb.
- If he **fails while climbing down** , he falls the entire distance.
# Jumping Down
- Warriors jumping down take an Initiative test **for each full 2”** jumped.
- If they fail any one of them, they fall the entire distance.
- Jumping Down does **not** use Movement. _(So if you have M6 you may move 3”, jump 4 ” and move up to 3 ”.)_
- A jump further than 7” automatically fails.
- You may measure the distance jumped down beforehand.
- Unless the jump is part of a charge move.
  
# Jumping Horizontally/Diagonally
Warriors can jump over gaps (such as rooftops) up to 4 ” wide. (You may measure beforehand, unless the jump is part of a charge.)
- Jumping horizontally/diagonally uses up movement.
- If the distance is further than 4 ” the warrior falls from where he jumped.
# Hiding
A warrior that is in cover from all enemies may hide. Hidden warriors cannot be shot at, charged or targeted with spells.
- Warriors can only hide at the end of a half-move.

A hidden warrior is automatically spotted if:
- He charges, shoots, or (attempts to) cast spells.
- An enemy moves within its Initiative value in inches of him.
- If an enemy has completely unobscured Line-of-Sight to him. (I.e. no cover.)
# Falling
A warrior that falls takes one WS X+ hits where X = 10 - (distance in inches that he fell).
- You can only fall from a full 2” or more.
- Falling cannot cause critical wounds.
- No armour saves apply.
A warrior that has fallen may do nothing else for the rest of that turn.
## Falling off Buildings
A warrior that is knocked down or stunned within 1” of an elevated edge or rooftop must pass one Initiative test or fall to the floor below, taking falling damage as above.
- Warriors will not fall off edges that have railings, low walls, etc. on all sides.
