---
sidebar_position: "5"
---
## Who Can Fight
Enemies within 1” of each other are considered to be in close combat with each other.  
_(Enemies separated by low walls, etc. will also fight.)_
- Warriors can fight 360° around themselves.
- Warriors **cannot** shoot missile weapons while in close combat.
- Warriors may cast spells while in close combat.
## Who Strikes First
The following rules apply:
- Warriors armed with a Spear or Halberd strike first in the first round of combat.
- Otherwise, chargers strike first.
- In other rounds, attack order is determined by comparing Initiative. Lowest Initiative score gores first. If two or more fighters have equal Initiative, roll dice to determine who strikes first.
- If two or more warriors are both able to ‘Strike First’, attack order is determined by Initiative as above.
- Warriors that recovered from being _knocked down_ this turn will **always** strike last regardless of skills, weapons, Initiative, etc.
## Hitting
Roll a WS test for each of the warrior’s **A**ttacks:
- If you score a hit, roll to wound.  
  _(See the Wounds and Injuries section.)_
## Fighting Unarmed
Unarmed attacks are at **-2 to the Strength roll**.
## Fighting with Two Weapons
A warrior that fights with two close combat weapons can make an extra attack with the additional weapon but will suffer **-1 to WS rolls** while doing so.  
_(This penalty affects both weapons.)_
## Firing Pistols in Close Combat
Contrary to the original _Mordheim_ and earlier versions of _Coreheim_, pistols **cannot** be fired in close combat.
## Switching Weapons in Close Combat
A warrior armed with multiple close combat weapons may switch between them at the **start of each Close Combat phase**.
## Leaving Close Combat

Warriors **cannot** leave close combat—even if all enemies they are fighting are knocked down or stunned at the start of their turn.
## Targeting Close Combat Attacks
Whenever a warrior has a choice between attacking enemies who are knocked down or stunned, or enemies standing up, he must attack the **standing enemies**.  
**Exception**: If multiple attacks were declared against the warrior _before_ he was knocked down or stunned.
## Warriors with Multiple Attacks
A warrior with multiple attacks may divide them up as he chooses. However, he must distribute all attacks **up front**, before rolling to hit.  
_(Some attacks may go to waste.)_
