## Campaign Types
### Closed Round Robin
- Every warband will face each other warband once before any repeats.
- Warbands may only face each other if they have had the same number of games.
- Play a fixed number of games determined at the start of a campaign.
	- Eg. For four players decide on 6 games per player. This means that you will face each opponent twice.
#### Player awards
A great addition to a closed game is to make each player fill out a survey for awards.
Eg.
- Best thematic warband
- Funnest opponent warband
- Most victorious warband
- Most cursed warband
### Open
Open campaigns do not have a fixed number of games or require every warband to be on equal footing.
- You may reset your warband back to the start at any point.
- You may create multiple warbands to play.
- New warbands may enter the campaign at any time.
- Warbands never really retire. They always yearn to go back for more Wyrdstone.

The natural lifecycle of hero & henchmen death will pleatu the strength of any warband. Tracking warband rating is vital in this gamemode for underdog bonuses.
## Campaign Modes
### Casual
Casual games are great for shorter campaigns like playing an entire campaign over a weekend or at a convention. Casual games are also great for playing solo.

In casual games make the following changes:
- Stop counting experience
	- Heroes level up every game
	- Henchmen level up every second game
- Henchmen groups are eternal
	- You may only have one henchmen group per henchmen type
	- There is no longer a limit of 5 units for a single henchmen group
	- You can always recruit back into a henchmen group regardless of their experience
- Warband rating calculation changes
	- Each hero is worth 10
	- Each henchmen is worth 5
	- Each hired sword is worth their listed amount
- Exclude Miscellaneous Equipment from purchasing options
- No two heroes may ever take the same skill twice in a single warband
### Complex
Use the full game rules as written.